[Music]
welcome to the NewsHour it's been 76
years since what Palestinians call the
nakba shout
nothing 76 seconds of the sound of
sirens rang out across the occupied West
Bank marking each year since the cast
ropy that's when more than
750,000 Palestinians were forced from
their homes today they're suffering an
even greater catastrophe with more than
35,000 men women and children killed by
Israel's war on Gaza and while
Palestinians in the occupied West Bank
marked the day Israel expanded its
military operation across Gaza shelling
of the jabalia refugee camp in Northern
Gaza killed four Palestinians while
another strike hit an unra Affiliated
clinic in Gaza City killing at least 10
people and in central Gaza Israel
targeted both the Alber and net refugee
camps killing dozens of Palestinians tar
Abu AUM is in derel Bala in central Gaza
and he begins our coverage on Israel's
latest
attacks a last goodbye kiss on the cheek
of a child now lifeless
the parash family's home was destroyed
by an Israeli air strike killing several
of
them this is what generational trauma
looks like as relatives of different
ages Gather in
shock they call out Habibi Arabic for my
love a last moment together before
burial
the br's home in ilage in the center of
the Gaza Strip it's a refugee camp
created in 1949 during the nakba one of
eight that still exists today including
Khan yunus and darl balah where dozens
of people have been killed in the last
few days in Israeli air
strikes it started off as tents to house
Palestinians kicked out of the homes by
Zionist forces across historic Palestine
some of them ended in Gaza and now
completely
trapped we lived through the nakar not
just once we were displaced several
times Palestinian Exiles in 2014 we were
displaced in 2008 we were displaced in
2022 we were displaced I was a child in
1967 as well and the circumstances were
very
difficult Shi sits with her
grandchildren who should mostly be at
school and instead they have been moving
from one place to another trying to
shelter from Israel's aggressive
bombardment since October last
year there's no catastrophe worse than
this one I've been here for 80 years and
nothing compares to this no house
neighbor or donkey or human being is
left in this life everything is
gone these kids are already trapped in a
cycle of violence as Israel's SW
continues with no end in
sight the only hear from the
grandparents the last of the neba
generation of a life free from
occupation but that's a destined to
dream for all Palestinians especially
for people here in Gaza who are all
permanent refugees and the Homeland Tark
abum Al jazer dared balah
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz